I'm troubled by seeing young people
declaring that going vegan is their
reason for dropping at a school and
dropping out of school being justified
by being yourself being happy being
quote healthy unquote I've really lost
count but it's like more than 12
examples of this I've seen and I'm not
looking for it like I'm not researching
this I'm not actively interested in
looking examples of people who give
veganism as their reason for dropping
out of university but whether it's a
reason or a rationale a justification
put together after the fact this is now
actually a pretty prominent part of
what's been going on in in veganism and
I can't just say in digital veganism in
the reality of what veganism is in the
real world so seeing something about
this today seeing yet another example of
this of somebody making a sort of proud
and bold declaration that they're
dropping out of university and what
their reasons are for that and what
their philosophy of life is that's kind
of justify their um supposedly being in
our dead act I'm going to read out a
letter I wrote a couple months ago to
someone else who did the same thing
someone dropped out of university and
explained in terms of veganism here's my
letter hi i just stumbled on your
youtube channel i just watched your
explanation of why you're dropping out
of university i think you're the third
person i've seen on youtube this month
who stated that the thai fruit festival
in directly inspired them to drop out of
university some of the videos on my
channel are about veganism and some are
not reflecting instead the stuff of them
working on University myself however my
three most recent videos that have had a
considerable reaction from people
currently in Chiang Mai are in direct
response to the Thai food festival and
not cheap gossip but really trying to
discuss the underlying issues I have
lived and worked in Thailand I have
lived and worked in a long list of
places in Asia Hong Kong yen and
Cambodia Laos etc
Chiang Mai is full of dead end losers
who dropped out of university Chiang Mai
is full of really bad examples of people
to model your life after seriously
chiang mai is full of people who will
make excuses for you and who will try to
convince you that failure is more of an
accomplishment than really having
ambition I'm writing and tell you as a
complete stranger don't fall for it yes
you can learn a lot while you're in
Thailand yes you may decide that a major
in commerce is not the right thing for
you to study however you won't learn a
lot by just relaxing with friends etc
learning is hard work everywhere in
Thailand or in a classroom learning the
Thai language would be a ton of very
hard work I know from experience
learning how to open a business in
Thailand would be a ton of hard work
including both book learning and talking
to entrepreneurs who already run such
businesses perhaps volunteering etc just
reading the newspapers and becoming
familiar with the basic political and
economic situation in Thailand in
English would be a lot of hard work I
would encourage you to do any of these
things or all of them living in Thailand
could be the opportunity of a lifetime
for you but it will be hard work not a
vacation if you really want to be such
an opportunity as critical as I am of
university when I read her replies to me
which she wrote back to me by email I
could see this really is a person who
needs a university education this is a
person who would benefit from the
process of having programmed procedural
reading and writing exercises developing
their ability as an essayist as an
author developing advanced reading
comprehension and putting together
coherent and compelling arguments in
writing in response to with their
reading I do not have a glamorized view
of what university is how it works what
it teaches or even what benefits people
derive from that
experience if you're in a bad situation
in a bad university the solution is to
try to find a better University the
solution too bad education is to try to
find good education not to give it up
and have no education at all and for the
vast majority of people young adults or
middle-aged adults are old adults that
is really hard nobody's used to it
nobody knows how to do it it's really
hard to recognize this particular
university is bad or this particular
department is bad this program is bad to
analyze why it's bad understand either
what's objectively bad about it or
what's subjectively bad about it what's
bad about it for you personally why it
doesn't work for you individually and
then to try to seek out and find a
program somewhere that will work for you
subjectively and that may be objectively
has better things about it it's tough
but I've got to tell you from experience
being an out of that act is even tougher
autodidact is a fancy word for you
didn't go to university you just taught
yourself you learn how to do something
yourself and you know autodidact SAR
often glamorized by people who don't
know their struggle who don't know what
their aspirations or ambitions were how
they ended up being stuck in a job that
teach them self there was a guy in
cambodia i assume he's dead now it was a
bit of a legendary figure who was a
self-taught medical doctor so let's be
clear he had no medical training yet
never been to university you know he
taught himself enough medicine to do I
guess what we would consider a nurse or
a you know an emergency medical
technician I don't think he could do
heart surgery or brain surgery didn't
ask
and you know it always struck me that
when people talked about that guy and
the sacrifice he made in the life he
lived you don't think he got old for him
you know you don't think sometimes he
was stuck in his Hut in Cambodia and
didn't wish that he had some of the
options in life that a formally trained
medical doctor would have now he might
wish for them selfishly but he might
also wish for it in order to make more
of a difference for his patients to do
more good to help people he might wish
for it in order to make more of a
difference in the medical field so we
could write articles other doctors but
reads we could do research that would
improve things there are a lot of
reasons why you would still want to have
the credentials of a legit medical
doctor even if you were in the
incredibly tiny minority of people who
taught themselves in the jungles of
Cambodia how to get by as a kind of sort
of good enough medical doctor and who
manages to eke out a career in a bamboo
hut because there are enough local
villagers who respect his authority and
ability to come to them when they have a
broken leg or a skinned knee or when
they're going to give birth where the
case may be I mean it's it's a dark and
difficult road being an autodidact in
anything trying to gain the same skills
with no textbook with no course with no
exam with nobody looking over your
shoulder with nobody to answer questions
that's harder work and that's harder
work even with languages yeah there's
something special about and there's
something wonderful about having a
teacher and a chalkboard and someone who
cares about you and someone who answers
your question when you raise your hand
and someone who prepares a test for you
and someone who tells you what mistakes
you're making what you're doing wrong
and it is 10 times more work to be your
own teacher and hold yourself to high
standards and one of the reasons why
being an autodidact is hard work is
precisely because you can't fail you
don't have someone there to tell you
you're doing it wrong
I feel for these people I really do I
I'm in university right now for the
second time I didn't drop out the first
time I completed one university degree
i'm back in university now getting a
second university degree i spent several
hours today having email with professors
talking to them about getting a third
university degree I am very far from an
uncritical fan of what universities are
how they operate the economics of them
or anything else I woke up this morning
at about 6am I look exhausted right now
because I am exhausted I wrote an in
class exam at about nine-thirty a.m. and
then a lot of the rest of my day was
basically related to the bureaucracy of
university stuff filled out application
forms and took the staples out of a
transcript and attached a transcript to
some other forms I'd to print out it's
awful I'm the last person to sit here
and tell you that university is a
wonderful or liberating experience and
that is not my experience I walk six
kilometres today but I didn't get to
work out in a gym I didn't even have
time to work out my own apartment I'm
not following my own interests around
passions in terms of research terms the
essays I'm writing or even the language
I'm studying a lot of what I'm doing is
misery last year my first year here at
uvic my grades were in the 90s largely
and 11 grade was 88 and so on my life
was 90% miserable it's awful I don't
recommend it to anyone it's not a good
time is it worth doing the answer is
going to be different for different
people